
# Preface

A person investigating Tezos via a google search will quickly find out about
lawsuits, Foundation controversy and a mention of an important delay on the
release of the software. This has been the stigma that Tezos was associated
before, during and after the release of the Betanet version on July 1st 2018.
So what about the launch itself? It is only after some more digging that one
will realize the betanet has been so far flawless with only a few software
updates to address minor issues. Nothing compared to drama that occured with
EOS or other launches.

So all the negativity associated with this cryptocurrency are off the
blockchain and its software. Considering this is a decentralized
crypto-currency, how can a lawsuit against its founders and the Tezos
Foundation could pose any risk to it? The short answer: no downside risk, just
the risk of minimizing its upside potential considering the foundation has
several hundred of millions in US dollars to work with to fund many projects
that will improve Tezos infrastructure and general ecosystem. And of course,
this would only apply if the lawsuits are successful.

What are those lawsuits about? One of contributors to the Tezos ICO (Initial
Coin Offering) sued the Foundation, the Breitmans and their company, DLS, which
created the original Tezos software. For a lawsuit to be involved, one would
thing of outright fraud, but that’s not the reason for it. No, the plaintiff
are suing because they believe it violated securities laws in the United
States. It seems the plaintiffs are not happy that they had the ability to
invest in the ICO in the first place. If it had followed security laws as they
perceived, the ICO would have been restricted to only accredited investors,
investors with net worth above $1 million or with $250,000 yearly income.
Either way, the lawsuit makes very little sense: why would they be suing if
they were accredited investors in the first place and would have been allowed?
On the other hand, if they are not, this means they are complaining they were
allowed to invest! Of course the formal statement regards the securities law,
but isn’t this legal matter suspicious when you question the initial motivation
that the plaintiff might have had to initiate this in the first place? Who
would sue because they were given a right they are complaining they should not
have had in the first place?

Once investors have passed these psychological investment barrier, the next
phase is in education. If Tezos actual software is based on strong foundation
and the software has been running without any major flaws, what are they? This
book is intended to cover the core elements of Tezos at a high level enough
that one not well versed in detailed software programming would gain the
essential knowledge of Tezos. We expect readers to range from the average
future investors to prospective expect users with an interest to build smart
contracts and needing to learn first the core elements of Tezos as a stepping
stone. Since most readers will have at least some light understanding of
Bitcoin, Bitcoin will be used to some degree for some comparison element and
frame of references.

The first chapter will go over its history and origin. It will go over the
sequence of events until its conception to the release of the betanet and then
mainnet. It will cover the issues in the crypto space that its creator, Arthur
Breitman, wanted to address.  Following this, chapter 2 should extend the
readers vocabulary with the introduction of many new concepts forming Tezos
foundation, including the proof-of-stake, and the ability of investors to
participate in it.

After getting the core elements, the next step is in getting into the technical
details, including addressing address formatting, the different type of
addresses and the baking process (bitcoin’s equivalent of mining sort of). One
of the major website used is tzscan.io that provides an easy way to walk
through the entire Tezos blockchain with easy to use search interface. Screen
captures will illustrate to the user how to use such tools covering the Tezos
blockchain. There are also web interface wallet that will be covered as well.

Chapter 4 will follow with more detailed information about how to use the Tezos
client software can be used to create the necessary contract addresses for one
to bake. Some suggested best practice will also be presented.

The prior chapter will provide the necessary core understanding to read chapter
5 explaining the requirements and good practice in order for a user to run a
node with the goal to participate in the baking process.

Chapter 6 will provide a general overview of the actual Tezos source code and
architecture while Chapter 7 will present an outlook of what we might expect
for the future of Tezos, in terms of impact as well as in terms of software
update and support.

Chapter 8 finishes by sharing personal stories of many of the Tezos investors.

